# Retail Sales analysis
## Tools used : Excel, Powerbi, SQL

The client owns one of the leading retail store chains in India and would like to receive a detailed analysis report and data-driven insights from the point of sales data to define marketing strategies 

## Objective: 
Conduct a comprehensive exploratory analysis to examine sales trends and understand customer behavior in detail.

## Summary: 
Conducted detailed exploratory data analysis on transaction data to understand the sales patterns among various products and additionally segemented customer based on thier age.

## Techniques used: 
Data Modeling (Creation of ER Diagrams), Data Manipulation, Data Summarization, Exploratory Data Analysis, Creation of Reports, and Insights Generation.

## Detailed Steps:

•	Understand the business objective and available data with the help of a data dictionary.

•	Created an ER Diagram that represents the structure of the database.

•	Subsequently, a database was established in an MS SQL server with the necessary schema, and the data was successfully loaded into it.

•	Performed the below analysis to understand the selling patterns, trends, seasonality of sales, performance of stores at different locations, and prioritizing customers.
o	Performance of sales over gender.
o	Sales in different store locations an
o	Behavior of customers purchasing pattern over month and year

•	Finally generated insights in terms of most performing stores, Location, gender etc.


## Findings:

•	Chennai, Mumbai, Banglore are the top locations of stores which are generarting maximum revenue

•	More revenue was generated by middle aged(35-50) customers which is 2628478.64 rather than youth(<25) and adult customer(25-35)

•	More transactions are from department 4 among the other 3 departments

•	Most repeated customers are from chennai and least customers are from hyderabad 

•	More repeated customers are female which is 69.27%

•	Store14 has generated highest revenue when compared to other stores

## Recomendations:

•	Less sales are from Hyderabad and Gurugram  cities these cities should be concentrated most.

•	More discounts should be given to stores which are generating less revenue

•	We should concentrate on customer retention as they are less repeated customers.

•	We should attract other age segement customer and should give good discounts to increase sales





